# EV-battery-smart-contract

With the current hype in cryptocurrency and Electric vehicles, I decided to work on something which uses Blockchain technology and simultaneously solves one of the many problems in the EV industry. I started with Solidity as the choice of language, as Ethereum is built on it and has a mature community and frameworks available. I focused on the problem of EV battery availability in the market. Current gas stations cannot solve the problem of charging the EV on the go as it is time-consuming. To facilitate this exchange of charged batteries maintaining the distributed availability could be a game changer. This sparked the idea of leveraging Blockchain, which would help me ensure trust in exchanging batteries with a particular individual and be aware of the history of the battery, complemented by a low overhead cost because of its decentralized nature, thus beneficial for all parties involved.
Further, this will also help me ensure that the humungous increase in battery production in the world currently should not result in bad disposal at its end of life. Blockchain helps us solve this problem by tracking a dead battery in its lifecycle, as Blockchain will track all batteries along with its last user. I worked on this project with a Blockchain enthusiast who helped design the product. I was responsible for implementing the smart contract and the ERC721 token on the Ethereum blockchain. Adding to the backend in Solidity, we used the Ethereum blockchain and MetaMask for wallet management and provided a UI developed with node.js and HTML. We have dockerized the application to facilitate portability across machines and ensure scalability.
